Project Overview:
A web app/ mobile app that helps users track the freshness of fruits and vegetables. In this, users can manually add produce items, specifying item name and purchase date.

Using this the app displays an estimated “best before date” and the time left before that date.

The app would also have recommendation for recipes that could be used with the currently entered produce, it would also show storage tips, like ideal temperature.

Planned Features:
-Manual entry(type + date purchased(quick option for todays date))
-Photo entry
-Barcode entry
-Voice entry

-Freshness Timer / Prediction (Using known shelf life data)
Optionally adjusting based on storage conditions
-Visual countdown and alerts before spoilage
-Recipe section containing recipes that use the already bought produce

-Daily Reminders to notify user when an item is about to go bad
Suggest “use soon” recipes, with an option to exclude stuff like meat, or gluten so that it doesn’t show that to the user if they don’t want that.

-A produce guide section, it shows the average shelf life for common fruits / veggies
-Storage tips in the same place as produce guide and all produce entries.

-Machine Learning image freshness estimation
-???Fridge integration???
-Waste Analytics to show users how much food they are saving.

Tech Stack:
Overall Framework (App): React Native / Next.js for website(maybe)
Image Analysis: TensorFlow Lite / OpenCV / custom ML model (maybe maybe)
Notifications: Local push + calendar integration
Design: Figma

Wish List:
On click (Produce) change the produce to a menu, where the user can decide to add or remove an item, or delete the whole thing.
    For the delete button make it press and hold, to prevent accidental clicks.
Add a tag to show how many days before the produce goes bad.
On press and hold (produce) navigate the user to the guide section to that specific produce.
Add a color functionality to indicate how long that item has left, based on its maximum estimated age.
Rework the UI to be stylistic.
    Rework the UI first, make it modern,
        Fix the card, have a border try to make it blocky, align the image and everything correctly,
        Create a floating add button, fixed absolute position
        Rework the alternate card side, Should include delete, modify and Guide, and a modify functionality.
        Make the days left part countdown dynamically client side, no need to update state everytime it changes.
        Pretty up the guide section
            The cards are fine as they are but, add image, title, category and keep best within date.
            On the individual guide section add, a description of the fruit, ideal storage conditions, common mistakes people make when storing it, fun facts, most common ways they are consumed, and whether they are toxic in some ways or not.
        Pretty up the entire add produce to fridge pipeline.
            Add an option to choose date, ideally with a fancy date picker, and quantity, even specify if its in grams or count.

Add the option to log into google, and such places to have an account.
    Make the data between devices of the same account sync
    Add functionality to work with smart fridges.
Add recipes
    Add a button to recommend recipes based on available items
    Add the option to manually add recipes
        Add the option to add recipe by picture, to quick fill the manual add recipe option.
